In this lesson we're gonna be using something called mixins.
If you read in vue js official guide mixins are a
flexible way to distribute reusable functionalities
for vue components and mixin object can contain any
component options when a component uses a mixin
all options in the mixing will be mixed
into components own options.
So in the simple term I can say that mixins allows you
to share some functionalities across components
throughout the application.
Alright let's open up our terminal and then
create new branch git checkout -b lesson
42.
Then let's also run web pack
by saying npm run
watch
Okay now let's go to assets js folder
and then let's create new folder
and let's call it mixins inside this folder
let's create new file
here
I'm gonna call it
I don't know
I have no idea I just call it modification dot
js of course you can call it whatever you like. In here
let's create javascript module to export
object by saying export default
now we can open the question and answer
side by side so that we can easily analyze the
duplicates or similar code and put them in our mixin
here in data method we can see the editing
property both in answer and question.
So let's copy these here in a modification
dot js let's define the data method.
return an object and paste the editing
here we cannot put the body and body html
in our mixin because they are different
here in computer property we will find is invalid and
endpoint in both answer and question but their
implementation a bit different.
So here we don't need to touch them
next here in methods property
we have similar functionalities in edit and cancel methods
both methods in both component has to modify
the editing property.
In my opinion we can define both method in our mixin
but since the setter and getter code in both places are different
so here we can encapsulate them in other methods
let's say set edit cache
and then here
let's say restore from cache
so in each component we need to define both
edit cache and restore from cache or we can also
define both methods here as empty method like this
letter in the component
where we include the mixin we need to override these
methods or implement their actual functionalities.
Okay next
let's also copy this update method into our mixin
Note that the different in this part is this payload
so here we can replace this with this dot payload that
means in a component we only need to define the payload
method and specify what data to be sent
or again
here we can define the payload method in our mixin
as empty method so that we know that we will need to
override this method in the component but this is not necessary.
Let's also copy the destroy method into our mixin
note that the different part in this method is the code in yes button
so let's replace these with
this dot delete
outside the destroy method we can define
the delete method as empty method.
Again this is not necessary. But I think it will helps us
to know which method that we need to redefine in
the component where we include our mixin. All right
now let's include our mixing in the answer dot vue
firstly let's import the mixin in here
then here we can add mixins which accepts an array
and we can add the modification mixin inside
it
then here in data we can remove the editing property
because we've defined it in our mixin
now inside this methods property
let's redefine some methods and remove some.
Here we have defined the edit in our mixin
what we need to do is to redefine the set edit cache.
Here we can simply change the edit method
to set edit cache
here we can keep this line and remove this line.
Let's also change this cancel method to restore from
cache keep this line and remove this line.
Next
here we have defined the update method
in our mixin all we have to do here
Is to cut this code
remove this update method
then redefine the payload method.
Inside this method let's add return
statement and paste the previous code.
Next
let's cut these axios dot delete
remove the destroy method
and redefine the delete method.
Inside this method just paste the previous code.
One thing that I missed here is to show
the success message after deletion.
So let me copy from here and then paste here.
All right
I think that's all we need.
Let's give it a safe and let's make sure that
everything's still working just fine.
Let me randomly select a question.
Now let's open our browser console and
make sure we don't have any errors. Okay
I have no errors.
Now let's edit any random answer.
Modify something here
then let's hit the cancel button to undo the change
let's hit the edit button again and
make sure the content's not change.
Now let's modify the answer.
Then hit the update button to save the changes
let me reload the page to make sure the changes is persistence.
OK so far so good.
Last let's remove the answer.
Something went wrong.
Let me reopen my browser console
here I have error data
is not defined. Let me see
OK here I have res in argument
So here I need to call res dot data.
I'm sure this answer has been removed.
So let me reload the page.
Then here
let me try to remove another answer.
Hit yes. OK great
now we can do the same thing to question component.
Let's switch back over to our editor
here in question component
firstly let's import our modification mixin
then here let's add the mixins property
and then add the modification mixin inside the array
then here in data method let's remove the editing property
we don't need to touch the computed property
Just keep that next inside the methods property
we can change the edit to set edit cache.
Keep these lines and remove the rest.
Then here we can replace the cancel method
to restore from cache. Keep these lines and remove
this line. Here inside the update method let's cut the
payload part
remove the method
then redefine or override the payload method
inside this method
let's add return statement and paste the payload.
Last inside
the destroy method
let's cut the axios dot delete and set time out.
Remove the method
and then redefine the delete method.
Inside this method just paste the previous code.
Alright
let's give it a safe and let's make sure that we have an error.
Reload the page.
Let's open our browser console. Great we have no errors.
Now let's edit the question
let's make changes here
and hit the cancel button to undo the change
let's hit the edit button again and make sure the content is not change okay.
No let's make changes one more time.
And then hit the update button to
save the changes to our database.
Okay great.
We've successfully DRY our script by utilizing
view mixins and now our code look more clean.
All right let's end this lesson and save
all files changes to our git repo.